buildSrc/readme.md, before:

# Configurations

## Dependencies

All project dependencies are managed in this class
`buildSrc/src/main/kotlin/Dependencies.kt`

## Signing

File
`buildSrc/src/main/resources/secret.properties`
must contain the following properties

```properties
signing.keyId=A4FF2279
signing.password=MyPerfectPassword
signing.secretKeyRingFile=PathToKeyRingFile.gpg
```

* `signing.keyId`: is a substring (last 8 characters) of the fingerprint (Short key ID), e.g.
   ```
  Fingerprint: 0D69 E11F 12BD BA07 7B37  26AB 4E1F 799A A4FF 2279
  Long key ID:                                4E1F 799A A4FF 2279
  Short key ID:                                         A4FF 2279
  ```

* `signing.password`: Passwort of the secret key

* `signing.secretKeyRingFile`: The key ring file with the secret key.
    * with "Kleopatra" go to "Backup secret keys..." and in the file chooser select the "gpg" file
      format.
    * In CLI type `gpg --export-secret-keys <KEY-ID>`

## Deploy

File
`buildSrc/src/main/resources/secret.properties`
must contain the following properties

```properties
gradle.publish.key=<Gradle Plugin Portal Key>
gradle.publish.secret=<Gradle Plugin Portal Secret>
sonatype.username=<Sonatype Username>
sonatype.password=<Sonatype Password>
```

* `gradle.publish.key` and `gradle.publish.secret`: Your Gradle Plugin Portal publication key+secret
* `sonatype.username` and `sonatype.password`: credentials for your Maven Central
  account (https://central.sonatype.org/pages/ossrh-guide.html)

Commit message:

added github actions for building and publishing

buildSrc/readme.md, after:

# Configurations

## Dependencies

All project dependencies are managed in this class
`buildSrc/src/main/kotlin/Dependencies.kt`

## Signing

File `buildSrc/src/main/resources/secret.properties`
or environment variable `CI_Secret_Properties_File`
must contain the following properties

```properties
signing.keyId=A4FF2279
signing.password=MyPerfectPassword
signing.secretKeyRingFile=PathToKeyRingFile.gpg
```

* `signing.keyId`: is a substring (last 8 characters) of the fingerprint (Short key ID), e.g.
   ```
  Fingerprint: 0D69 E11F 12BD BA07 7B37  26AB 4E1F 799A A4FF 2279
  Long key ID:                                4E1F 799A A4FF 2279
  Short key ID:                                         A4FF 2279
  ```

* `signing.password`: Passwort of the secret key

The secret key ring file with the secret key
 * must be store under path`buildSrc/src/main/resources/comahe-de.gpg`
   or in environment variable `CI_Secret_Key_Ring_File` (Base64 encoded)
* How to export id?
    * with "Kleopatra" go to "Backup secret keys..." and in the file chooser select the "gpg" file
      format.
    * In CLI type `gpg --export-secret-keys <KEY-ID>`



## Deploy

File `buildSrc/src/main/resources/secret.properties`
or environment variable `CI_Secret_Properties_File`
must contain the following properties

```properties
gradle.publish.key=<Gradle Plugin Portal Key>
gradle.publish.secret=<Gradle Plugin Portal Secret>
sonatype.username=<Sonatype Username>
sonatype.password=<Sonatype Password>
```

* `gradle.publish.key` and `gradle.publish.secret`: Your Gradle Plugin Portal publication key+secret
* `sonatype.username` and `sonatype.password`: credentials for your Maven Central
  account (https://central.sonatype.org/pages/ossrh-guide.html)
  

## Error solutions

* /home/runner/work/_temp/***.sh: line 1: ./gradlew: Permission denied
  * Thee underlying problem is that the file is not executable, which you'll need to change in your
    repository. If you're on Windows, that may be why the file did not get added as executable in
    your repository. On Windows, you can run:
    ```
    git update-index --chmod=+x gradlew
    ```
    Then commit and push this change.
